XXXXX'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND 
 
Lewis Carroll 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER I. Down the XXXXXX-Hole 
 
XXXXX was beginning to get very tired of sitting by XXX sister on the 
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice XXX had peeped into the 
XXXX XXX sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in 
it, 'and what is the use of a XXXX,' thought XXXXX 'without pictures or 
conversation?' 
 
So XXX was considering in XXX own mind (as well as XXX could, for the 
hot day made XXX feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure 
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and 
picking the daisies, when suddenly a XXXXX XXXXXX with pink eyes ran 
close by XXX. 
 
There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did XXXXX think it so 
VERY much out of the way to hear the XXXXXX say to itself, 'Oh dear! 
Oh dear! I shall be late!' (when XXX thought it over afterwards, it 
occurred to XXX that XXX ought to have wondered at this, but at the time 
it all seemed quite natural); but when the XXXXXX actually TOOK A WATCH 
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, 
XXXXX started to XXX feet, for it flashed across XXX mind that XXX had 
never before seen a XXXXXX with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch 
to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, XXX ran across the field 
after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large 
XXXXXX-hole under the hedge. 
 
In another moment down went XXXXX after it, never once considering how 
in the world XXX was to get out again. 
 
The XXXXXX-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then 
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that XXXXX had not a moment to think 
about stopping XXXXXXX before XXX found XXXXXXX falling down a very deep 
well. 
 
Either the well was very deep, or XXX fell very slowly, for XXX had 
plenty of time as XXX went down to look about XXX and to wonder what was 
going to happen next. First, XXX tried to look down and make out what 
XXX was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then XXX 
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with 
cupboards and XXXX-shelves; here and there XXX saw maps and pictures 
hung upon pegs. XXX took down a jar from one of the shelves as 
XXX passed; it was labelled 'ORANGE MARMALADE', but to XXX great 
disappointment it was empty: XXX did not like to drop the jar for fear 
of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as 
XXX fell past it. 
 
'Well!' thought XXXXX to XXXXXXX, 'after such a XXXX as this, I shall 
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at 
home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top 
of the house!' (Which was very likely true.) 
 
Down, down, down. Would the XXXX NEVER come to an end! 'I wonder how 
many miles I've fallen by this time?' XXX said aloud. 'I must be getting 
somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four 
thousand miles down, I think--' (for, you see, XXXXX had learnt several 
things of this sort in XXX lessons in the schoolroom, and though this 
was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off XXX knowledge, as there 
was no one to listen to XXX, still it was good practice to say it over) 
'--yes, that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude 
or Longitude I've got to?' (XXXXX had no idea what Latitude was, or 
Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.) 
 
Presently XXX began again. 'I wonder if I shall XXXX right THROUGH the 
earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with 
their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think--' (XXX was rather glad 
there WAS no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the 
right word) '--but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country 
is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and 
XXX tried to curtsey as XXX spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling 
through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) 'And what an 
ignorant little girl XXX'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to 
ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.' 
 
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so XXXXX soon began 
talking again. 'Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!' 
(Dinah was the cat.) 'I hope they'll remember XXX saucer of milk at 
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no 
mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very 
like a mouse, you know. But do cats XXX bats, I wonder?' And here XXXXX 
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to XXXXXXX, in a dreamy 
sort of way, 'Do cats XXX bats? Do cats XXX bats?' and sometimes, 'Do 
bats XXX cats?' for, you see, as XXX couldn't answer either question, 
it didn't much matter which way XXX put it. XXX felt that XXX was dozing 
off, and had just begun to dream that XXX was walking hand in hand with 
Dinah, and saying to XXX very earnestly, 'Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: 
did you ever XXX a bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down XXX came upon 
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the XXXX was over. 
 
XXXXX was not a bit hurt, and XXX jumped up on to XXX feet in a moment: 
XXX looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before XXX was another 
long passage, and the XXXXX XXXXXX was still in sight, hurrying down it. 
There was not a moment to be lost: away went XXXXX like the wind, and 
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, 'Oh my ears 
and whiskers, how late it's getting!' XXX was close behind it when XXX 
turned the corner, but the XXXXXX was no longer to be seen: XXX found 
XXXXXXX in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging 
from the roof. 
 
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when 
XXXXX had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every 
door, XXX walked sadly down the middle, wondering how XXX was ever to 
get out again. 
 
Suddenly XXX came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid 
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and XXXXX's 
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; 
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, 
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second 
time round, XXX came upon a low curtain XXX had not noticed before, and 
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: XXX tried the 
little golden key in the lock, and to XXX great delight it fitted! 
 
XXXXX opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not 
much larger than a rat-hole: XXX knelt down and looked along the passage 
into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How XXX longed to get out of 
that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and 
those cool fountains, but XXX could not even get XXX head through the 
doorway; 'and even if my head would go through,' thought poor XXXXX, 'it 
would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could 
shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only know how to begin.' 
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, 
that XXXXX had begun to think that very few things indeed were really 
impossible. 
 
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so XXX went 
back to the table, half hoping XXX might find another key on it, or at 
any rate a XXXX of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this 
time XXX found a little bottle on it, ('which certainly was not here 
before,' said XXXXX,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper 
label, with the words 'XXXXX ME' beautifully printed on it in large 
letters. 
 
It was all very well to say 'XXXXX me,' but the wise little XXXXX was 
not going to do THAT in a hurry. 'No, I'll look first,' XXX said, 'and 
see whether it's marked "poison" or not'; for XXX had read several nice 
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild 
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they WOULD not remember 
the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot 
poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your 
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and XXX had never 
forgotten that, if you XXXXX much from a bottle marked 'poison,' it is 
almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later. 
 
However, this bottle was NOT marked 'poison,' so XXXXX ventured to taste 
it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour 
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot 
buttered toast,) XXX very soon finished it off. 

  *    *    *    *    *    *    * 
 
    *    *    *    *    *    * 

  *    *    *    *    *    *    * 

'What a curious feeling!' said XXXXX; 'I must be shutting up like a 
telescope.' 
 
And so it was indeed: XXX was now only ten inches high, and XXX face 
brightened up at the thought that XXX was now the right size for going 
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, XXX 
waited for a few minutes to see if XXX was going to shrink any further: 
XXX felt a little nervous about this; 'for it might end, you know,' said 
XXXXX to XXXXXXX, 'in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder 
what I should be like then?' And XXX tried to fancy what the flame of a 
candle is like after the candle is blown out, for XXX could not remember 
ever having seen such a thing. 
 
After a while, finding that nothing more happened, XXX decided on going 
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor XXXXX! when XXX got to the 
door, XXX found XXX had forgotten the little golden key, and when XXX 
went back to the table for it, XXX found XXX could not possibly reach 
it: XXX could see it quite plainly through the glass, and XXX tried XXX 
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; 
and when XXX had tired XXXXXXX out with trying, the poor little thing 
sat down and cried. 
 
'Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said XXXXX to XXXXXXX, 
rather sharply; 'I advise you to leave off this minute!' XXX generally 
gave XXXXXXX very good advice, (though XXX very seldom followed it), 
and sometimes XXX scolded XXXXXXX so severely as to bring tears into 
XXX eyes; and once XXX remembered trying to box XXX own ears for having 
cheated XXXXXXX in a game of croquet XXX was playing against XXXXXXX, 
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people. 
'But it's no use now,' thought poor XXXXX, 'to pretend to be two people! 
Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person!' 
 
Soon XXX eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: 
XXX opened it, and found in it a very small XXXX, on which the words 
'XXX ME' were beautifully marked in currants. 'Well, I'll XXX it,' said 
XXXXX, 'and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it 
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll 
get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!' 
 
XXX ate a little bit, and said anxiously to XXXXXXX, 'Which way? Which 
way?', holding XXX hand on the top of XXX head to feel which way it was 
growing, and XXX was quite surprised to find that XXX remained the same 
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats XXXX, but XXXXX 
had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way 
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on 
in the common way. 
 
So XXX set to work, and very soon finished off the XXXX. 
 
  *    *    *    *    *    *    * 
 
    *    *    *    *    *    * 
 
  *    *    *    *    *    *    * 
 
